Principles to follow
1. Give the agent the goal + boundaries

Don't just say "add team attendance."

Tell it:

What needs to change
What must remain unchanged
What files/areas it should likely touch
What it must not refactor

This prevents unnecessary exploration.

2. Don't make the agent rediscover obvious requirements

Bad:

"We need some changes to teams. Currently teams have name and description..."

Better:

"Team fields should become: name, daily wage, car rent, manager fee. Name and daily wage required."

Be explicit about data → calculation → UI → validation.

3. Break large work into logical phases

For a big feature, use:

Phase 1: inspect and plan
Phase 2: implement
Phase 3: test/fix

Rather than repeatedly giving new instructions after every small mistake.

4. Tell it to reuse existing patterns

This is extremely important.

Say:

"Follow the existing labour attendance implementation and reuse its components, validation and calculation patterns wherever applicable."

Otherwise an agent may invent a second architecture.

5. Explicitly say don't refactor unrelated code

Use this sentence frequently:

"Do not refactor, rename, or modify unrelated code."

This can save a surprising amount of agent work.

6. Give exact formulas

Don't let the model infer business logic.

For example:

teamTotal = presentLabourCount × dailyWage + carRent + managerFee

Then give one numerical example.

7. Define edge cases upfront

For your app, explicitly mention:

0 people present
car rent = 0
manager fee = 0
team with no task
existing teams
existing labour attendance
existing database records

Otherwise the agent may discover these cases during implementation, costing another cycle.

8. Don't ask it to "improve" things you didn't request

Avoid phrases like:

"Make the attendance system better."

That is basically an invitation to spend tokens.

Instead:

"Implement only the requirements below."

9. Don't repeatedly ask the agent to explain

If you're using an agentic coding environment, don't waste turns asking:

"What did you change?"

"Can you explain this?"

"What files are you going to modify?"

unless you actually need that information.

Every additional interaction can add context and tool usage.

10. Give it a stopping condition

This is underrated.

End with something like:

"Once these requirements are implemented, run the relevant checks, fix errors caused by this change, and stop. Do not make additional improvements."

That tells the agent when done means done.

Also no need to view and validate changes in external browser just check for TypeScript/build/runtime errors and fix any issues caused by these changes.